## WHO I AM

- Name, title, the very short version of what I do: Christopher Monnat, I prefer Chris. I am the Chief Technology Officer (CTO) of Dual Logic a full-service AI consulting company providing education, enablement, and technical implementation services. As CTO and Managing Partner, I lead the implementation practice, building custom software solutions and automation workflows that turn AI strategy into working systems.
- 3 sentences on the people I serve and what they hire me for: I am a software engineering veteran with 20 years experience building applications, teams and meeting at the intersection of business and technology to help deliver value to customers. Companies hire me to build engineering teams, help improve teams and operations they already have and to build applications/products within their companies.

## HOW I WRITE

- 3 writers I admire and try to sound like: Robert Frost, Barack Obama, Stephen Colbert
-  3 things I never do: 
	-  no em dashes, ever
	-  don't start a sentence with and
	-  limit the word hope
- Sentence length preference: short & punchy / medium
- Common phrases I actually use
- Common phrases I never use

## WHAT I BELIEVE

- 5 strong opinions I hold about my industry:
	- AI won't replace software engineers, it will make them stronger and more productive
	- True leadership is shown in how you treat the people around you
	- Agile needs to be updated for the gen-AI age
	- You can't blindly replace workers with AI agents, it won't work
	- AI slop is a thing. Just because AI can product software quickly doesn't mean it's good.

## WHO I WRITE FOR

- A description of one specific reader (name, age,
situation, fear): Joe CEO, 50 years old and worried about being left behind by technology of the day.
- What they want: to understand what's happening and what the opportunities are in terms they can understand.
- What they're tired of hearing: the constant technology hype cycle that over promises and under produces

## EXAMPLES

### 10 Reasons Why CodeIgniter Rocks

Every once and a while you come across a blog post or forum discussion about what PHP application framework is the best. They each have their own positives and negatives, but the true answer to that question is that it depends on the programmer. Each programmer has a different style and different priorities when it comes to adopting a tool kit to use when building apps.nMy framework of choice is <a href="http://www.codeigniter.com">CodeIgniter</a> (CI) and below are my 10 reasons why CI rocks:
<table border="0" width="100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="3"><tbody><tr><td valign="top" width="7%"><strong>10.</strong></td><td><strong>MVC Architecture</strong>The model, view, controller architecture is nothing new. It seems like all the coding frameworks are MVC nowadays, and if they aren't it can be configured easily. I have had experience building large apps the procedural way and every time they end up with unmanageable spaghetti code. The MVC way of doing things offers nice code separation and keeps things clean. Some frameworks force you to do things by the books but CI lets you use MVC in a way that makes sense you. If that means ignoring models all together then so be it.</td></tr><tr><td valign="top"><strong>9.</strong></td><td><strong>Little to no server requirements.</strong>Unlike other PHP frameworks, CI works with both PHP 4 and 5. That makes the lives of someone like me who has to be able to work seamlessly between the two environments much easier. Of course I have painted myself into a corner from time and used PHP5 techniques in my apps, but the framework itself works on either.</td></tr><tr><td valign="top"><strong>8.</strong></td><td><strong>Easy to understand and extend.</strong>CI is the first framework that I used that actually makes sense to me. I have tried <a href="http://www.cakephp.org/">Cake PHP</a>, the <a href="http://framework.zend.com/">Zend framework</a>, <a href="http://www.symfony-project.org/">Symfony</a> and many others and I was able to get up and running with CI the quickest. CI is also easy to write new libraries, change the behaviour of existing libraries and just change the overall behaviour of the framework with little effort.</td></tr><tr><td valign="top"><strong>7.</strong></td><td><strong>All the tools you need in one little package.</strong>Calendar, e-mail, zip encoding, validation, uploading, sessions, unit testing... that is just a few of the built in libraries that come with CI. It also includes a boat load of default helpers for things like forms, file handling, arrays, strings, cookies, directories and more. Plus, if that wasn't enough, you can create your own libraries and helpers or use code that has been developed by the CI community and posted to the <a href="http://codeigniter.com/wiki/">wiki</a>.</td></tr><tr><td valign="top"><strong>6.</strong></td><td><strong>No "installation" necessary.</strong>Believe it or not, one of the hardest things I have experienced with trying new frameworks is installing them. I am not a fan of UNIX command line so I tend to look for tools that I can install and use by just uploading files to a directory. CI fits this requirement nicely. No need for PEAR packages or server modifications to get the framework up and running. Just upload the files to your server and your off.</td></tr><tr><td valign="top"><strong>5.</strong></td><td><strong>Built in security tools.</strong>CI allows you to implement as much or as little security as you feel is necessary for your app. It does some things by default like unsetting all global variables regardless of PHPs register_globals directive and turning off the magic_quotes_runtime directive during system initialization so that you don't have to remove slashes when retrieving data from your database. Other things can be enabled like cookie encryption, handling session data with a database and automatically escaping SQL queries.</td></tr><tr><td valign="top"><strong>4.</strong></td><td><strong>Database abstraction and more.</strong>Every decent framework has a database abstraction layer nowadays and CI is no exception. You can easily create insert, update and delete statements without needing to write raw SQL. Handle connections to multiple databases within one application and connect to any of the following database types: MySQL (4.1+), MySQLi, MS SQL, Postgre, Oracle, SQLite, or ODBC. CI also lets you manipulate your database like add/remove columns from tables, create new tables and remove old ones using it's new database forge library.</td></tr><tr><td valign="top"><strong>3.</strong></td><td><strong>Large and active user community.</strong>The last time I checked, there were over 57,000 registered members on the CI forums. That is a nice and big user community to work with when you have a problem or question. The CI website has a forum and wiki when your looking for answers. No confusing group mailing lists or chat channels just to get a quick answer to a question.</td></tr><tr><td valign="top"><strong>2.</strong></td><td><strong>Excellent documentation.</strong>By far, the biggest advantage of CI over any other framework is it's documentation. I will admit to trying some other frameworks while they were still in BETA and under development. But, CIs documentation is 10 times better than other framework documentation I have come across and I strongly think thats because CI is backed by a company and not just a community. <a href="http://www.ellislabs.com">EllisLab</a>, the company behind CI, takes a lot of pride in CI and they have big plans for it and thats why they don't have a problem in spending the time that is necessary to come up with quality documentation for the user community.</td></tr><tr><td valign="top"><strong>1.</strong></td><td><strong>Will soon be one in the same with <a href="http://www.expressionengine.com">ExpressionEngine</a>.</strong>The #1 reason why CI rocks is that ExpressiongEngine, EllisLabs content management system, is currently being rebuilt to use the framework. This means that whatever libraries, helpers, etc. that you develop for CI you can use with EE in the future and vice versa. This also means that whatever EE needs to operate, CI gets. This could means things like an improved parser class, built in user authentication, ability to easily program modular applications and more. All of this is just speculation as the new version of EE is not out yet, but a man can dream.</td></tr></tbody></table>

---

### What does your code say about you?

Don't look now, but someone is talking about you behind your back. They are spreading all kinds of ugly rumors about your work/programming abilities. I'm not talking about your best friend or even the guy you share an office with... I'm talking about your code.

We have been looking for another web application developer for the last couple of weeks. It has become painfully clear to me that programmers don't pay enough attention to the code they submit to potential employers as examples of their work. When I'm sitting with a job candidate, I don't really like to ask all that many technical questions because it doesn't really prove much. If you answer the questions right, that says your book smart or you at least were prepared for the interview. But it doesn't really say a whole lot about you as a programmer.

The thing that carries the most weight with me when it comes to fielding job candidates is their work/code samples. Your code: how it's formatted, how it's commented, the functions you use, etc. tells people a lot about you as a programmer. Lack of comments or formatting says that speed is more important to you than proper documentation or creating understandable code. Writing complex code that could easily be refactored by using a PHP function says that you may not have a proper understanding of the PHP language and the tools it provides.

Believe it or not, whether the code you submit actually works or does anything at all doesn't matter to me in the least. Others may disagree with me on this point, but I don't care if your code sample does anything. I'm not looking at whether your code works, I'm looking at formatting, logic, commenting, understandability, etc. I have interviewed people who come off very well in the face to face interview but when I look at their code they end up coming off like a whole other person.

Some people may think that I'm being a hard ass, but when working with other programmers being able to easily understand the code they write is essential to a successful project. If you're unsure about what your code is saying to others check out some popular code standards (like those published by <a href="http://framework.zend.com/manual/en/coding-standard.html">Zend</a> or <a href="http://expressionengine.com/docs/development/guidelines/general.html">EllisLab</a>) and see how well you match up. Also, don't be shy to show your code to other developers you know to see what they think.

Take the initiative and find out what your code is saying behind your back.

---

### Surprise Your Customers

I have a subscription to <a href="http://adventure.nationalgeographic.com/">National Geographic Adventure</a> magazine, the photos in it kick ass and I also enjoy dreaming of running off to the bizzare destinations they write about. Anyway, about a month ago I came across a brightly colored full page ad for a web site called <a href="http://www.zappos.com">Zappos</a>. After visiting the site and looking around a little I determined that it was just another online shoe store and moved on.

Recently however, I have been on an exercise kick and decided to give running a try. When I was doing my weekly shopping this weekend I decided to look at new sneakers while I was out. I don't enjoy shopping, almost as much as I don't enjoy dealing with sales people... so I didn't look very hard. When I got home I decided to do some research for sneakers online (or as I like to call it the "no salesperson zone") and found myself at Zappos once again. On their site they talk about great customer service and how they have free shipping and a 365 day return policy, etc. With that in mind, I decided to try an experiment and buy a pair of shoes online using using their store.

I made the purchase earlier today (on a Sunday) and chose free shipping which meant it would arrive in 4 or 5 business days. Boy was I surprised when I checked my e-mail just now (on the same Sunday) and had received a message from Zappos telling me my order had been given a special priority status and the shipping had been upgraded at no cost to me so I will have my sneakers sooner than expected. Now I know this is probably something they do to all of their new customers to make a good first impression but still... how cool is that?

Whether you like it or not we currently live in the age of customer service. All the products and providers are starting to look more and more similar so the only place left to gain any ground at all is in customer service. Upgrading the shipping of my order didn't cost Zappos much money at all but it certainly was a pleasant surprise to me. Whether the shoes fit or not isn't Zappos' problem; different brands fit differently, I could have selected the wrong size, etc. But, unless the shoes show up in shreds or I receive the wrong ones Zappos has certainly differentiated themselves from other online retailers I have done business with.

I think this is a great example of quality customer service. We are so used to getting treated like crap by companies when you call their support number or when you try to correct an error with something you purchased that when a company does something unexpected it's a breath of fresh air. Not only will you likely shop with that company again but you will probably tell your friends about your experience which is great news for the retailer.

How can you surprise your customers? Take a look at your products or services this week and see how you can stand out from the pack and do something unexpected for your customers. Try some experiements of your own and let me know how you make out.